om man and I now give the floor to
distinguished
representative of
Qatar Mr President we thank you for the
resumption of the 10th special emergency
session of the general assembly we align
ourselves with the statement delivered
on behalf of the Arab group The OIC and
the statement on behalf of the GCC
member states Mr President we all
realize that the resumption of this
special emergency session comes at a
critical time and context the
deteriorating humanitarian situation in
Gaza Strip as a result of the Israeli
attacks against innocent civilians have
become
catastrophic they threaten to spiral in
a manner that would threaten in the
security of the region and the world in
this manner we express deep regret over
the failure of the security Council to
undertake its responsibilities in
accordance with the charter the council
failed to adopt any outcome neither to
adopt a resolution for an immediate
ceasefire or a binding resolution
regarding the deteriorating humanitarian
situation in Gaza Strip as such it is
important for the general assembly to
undertake its responsibility in
safeguarding International Peace and
security according to the Charter and
its resolution
Roman
five titled uniting for peace we renew
our call for all parties for
deescalation and ultimately working for
the full ceasefire the immediate release
of all prisoners particularly civilians
ensure delivery of humanitarian Aid into
Gaza Strip opening safe corridors that
allow the delivery of humanitarian Aid
we reaffirm again our condemnation of
all forms of targeting civilians
particularly women and children our
unequivocal rejection of The Siege the
full Siege imposed by Israel the
occupying power on Gaza Strip that
deprives 2.3 million people half of whom
are children of their basic needs
including water food medicine and
electricity this comes at a time when
the Israeli bombing has killed more than
6,000 victims in Gaza Strip including
more than
1,700 women and more than 3,000 children
we reaffirm our unequivocal rejection of
the policies of collective punishment
and efforts and attempts of forcible
displacement of Palestinian people from
gaza's STP and forcing civilians to
internally displace or take refuge in
neighboring countries which is a
violation of inter
law in light of this catastrophic
humanitarian situation Gaza Strip and in
addition to all the Diplomatic and
militarian and mediation efforts that
Qatar is undertaking we also take pride
in adopting and presenting this draft
resolution submitted by the Arab group
titled protection of Palestinian
civilian
population Mr President the draft
resolution represents the minimum
obligations of member states in such
circum es that they should undertake to
address the grave repercussions of the
situation in Gaza Strip IT addresses a
critical vacuum in terms of the
situation in Gaza Strip a vacuum created
by the failure of the security Council
to perform its legal and ethical
responsibilities Mr President it is very
important for the general assembly
through this draft resolution provide a
legal framework of reference needed for
the international response to the
situation in
Gaza this should also the support for
this draft resolution should reflect the
consensus and unity of the International
Community towards the fair nature of the
Palestinian question and through the
wide support for this draft resolution
send a message of Hope to our brothers
our Palestinian brothers that the
general assembly is United to restore
respect for international law for the
charter we reaffirm that the only
guarantee to achieve sustainable peace
in the region is to reach a fair and
comprehensive solution for the
Palestinian question in accordance to
the Arab peace initiative and the
two-state solution that guarantees the
establishment of an independent
Palestinian State on the 1967 borders
with its capital East Jerusalem and for
the Palestinian people to enjoy their
inable rights in conclusion Mr President
Qatar continues to contribute to the
ongoing diplomatic efforts to find a way
out that will stop the Bloodshed of our
Palestinian brothers and Ure a
sustainable political solution in
accordance to the well-known terms of
reference and steer the region away from
spiraling into chaos and violence thank
you Mr
President